
## Table of Contents


- [Overview](#overview)
- [Developer Registration](#registration)
- [Creating a Project](#creating-a-project)
- [Finding the Perfect Actor](#finding-the-perfect-actor)
	- [Qualities and Ethics Levels](#qualities-and-ethics-levels)
	- [Order and Download](#order-and-download)
- [Next Steps](#next-steps)

---
## Overview
To use the Lingotion Thespeon Engine you need to do 4 things:
1. Register as a Developer on the [Lingotion Portal](https://portal.lingotion.com).
2. Choose an appropriate actor for your project and download its Actor Pack and corresponding Language Pack(s). 
3. Install and use the Lingotion Thespeon Package in Unity.

Below follows a step-by-step guide on how to carry out these steps.

--- 
## Developer Registration
to get your hands on a Thespeon Actor you must first register as a Developer on the [Lingotion Portal](https://portal.lingotion.com). Upon your first visit you will be asked to sign up using an email address after which a verification email will be sent before the registration process can begin. The first thing you will see are the Lingotion Terms of Service (TOS). Make sure to read these carefully before accepting as it is a legally binding document. An up-to-date TOS can always be found [here](https://www.lingotion.com/termsofservice) and on any eventual updates to the TOS you will be notified and asked to accept the revision once more on your next login. Once accepted the first time the user registration initiates. Check the option for Developer and fill out your and your company's information. This information can be edited at a later time in your user settings. 

The portal consists of the main pages My Projects, Actors, Pricing and User Settings. 
- Under My Projects you will find an overview of all your current active projects. A project is necessary to have since each acquired Actor must be connected to a Project for the license to take effect. 
- The Actors page allows you to browse all our available actors, read about the actor profile, listen to audio samples and find the perfect fit for your project.
- Under Pricing you will find up-to-date pricing information for our Actors.
* Under User Settings you may revise your user information at any time.



---
## Creating a Project

Upon first entry to the Portal you will see instruction to guide you through creating your first project and acquiring your first Thespeon Actor. A Project is necessary and will serve as the storage unit for your actor modules. Keep in mind that all our Thespeon Licenses are Project specific, meaning ordering a Thespeon Actor necessitates selecting which project to connect it to. The Thespeon Actor may only be used within the project to which it is connected. For use in several projects you must order the Thespeon Actor several times. 

---
## Finding the Perfect Actor

Lingotion offers a number of different actors, each of which you will find under the Actors page on the developer portal. Apart from each actor having its own unique voice, style and language(s), you will also find some other important information under each actor. Lingotion currently offers each of its actors in three tiers of quality - directly linked to their size in memory and computational demand. Each Actor also has the option to set their own Ethics Level which determine restrictions on the license in terms of use. Below follows a more detailed description of these properties. 

When browsing the actors you will find audio samples for each of its supported languages. These are audio files generated by the Thespeon Actor Pack which you will receive upon order and download and can easily be replicated in your own project.
##### Qualities and Ethics Levels

Currently three tiers of qualities are available for each Thespeon Actor: high, mid and ultralow. These provide you an opportunity to select the Actor Pack(s) which best fits your Project's target device(s). A higher quality Actor Pack will, as its name implies, produce higher quality acting at the trade-off of being larger and heavier to run in your game. As such some devices will likely not be able to run the highest quality and instead require a lower quality Actor Pack. We recommend the following heurisitc when selecting your Actor Pack:

- High quality - for PC and Console
- Mid quality - for low-end PC and high-end mobile / games with a smaller memory/computation budget.
- Ultralow - for low-end mobile or games with severe budget restrictions on memory/computation.



There are 4 different Ethics Levels, one of which each actor will choose as. These set restrictions on what game context the Actor may be used in and must be followed by the licensee. They are in order of strictness the following starting with the least strict. 

1. Liberal
	- Any situation and any type of context.
2. Balanced
	- No extreme racism.
	- No major sexual abuse.
	- No explicit pornographic content or content primarily of a sexual nature.
3. Strict
	- All Characters must follow the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
	- No synthesizing of criminal activities that could result in imprisonment under Swedish law if carried out in a real world situation.
	- No synthesizing of actions, speech, or behavior that are illegal or deemed grossly immoral in a majority of countries in the world.
	- No racism or anti-religious behavior.
	- No sexual abuse.
	- No pornographic content or content primarily of a sexual nature.
4. Case by Case
	 - Each Character use must be approved by the Actor.

Actors have the option to change their set Ethics Level at any time, however a change of an Ethics Level can only affect a future license meaning the Ethics Level at the time of purchase applies. ***QUESTION: Does this only apply to changes to be more strict?***. Complete and updated information and license terms pertaining to Ethics Levels can be found [here ***INSERT THE CORRECT LINK***] (#https://lingotion.com/ethicslevels**SOMELINK**). If there are any conflicts between its information and the information presented here, the webpage information takes precedence over this.
##### Order and Download
You may notice that There are two types of Actors available. There are a number of **Starter** Actors as well as **Flex/Fixed** Actors. These tags refer to the Actor's Pricing status which you may find up-to-date information on under the Pricing tab in the Developer Portal. 

**Starter** Actors have agreed to be available on a free-to-try basis and are completely free to use and play with during development, only incurring a cost once published in a game. These are available to order and download directly in the portal by clicking the cart icon and following the steps provided. 

**Fixed/Flex** Actors must be purchased with a flat fee before use. To use one of these you must first contact the Lingotion Sales department at sales@lingotion.com.

Upon order you will be asked to select a project if one has not already been selected and you will be notified of the Terms of Service applicable to the use of the selected Actor. Once the order has been completed you can download as many instances of the model as you need, meaning only one order is needed for each game title and can be shared with your colleagues within the limits of the Terms of Service. 

Before download you will be informed about what your are downloading. This will for a selected Actor typically be its Actor Pack zip file and a number of Language Pack zip files (one for each supported language) and information as to what they contain. Note that you do not have to unzip the files at any point. Also note that several Actor Packs will reuse the same Language Packs. As such, should you use several Actors speaking the same language, one language pack for each language will likely suffice. You will find more information on that in [Get Started - Unity](get-started-unity). 

---
## Next Steps

After download of the zip files you are ready to start working with the Lingotion Thespeon Engine in Unity. Go to [Get Started - Unity](get-started-unity) for a comprehensive guide in where to go from here and getting set up in Unity. You may also find useful information about Lingotion and the Thespeon Engine on our [website](https://lingotion.com ). 

**Happy Acting!**


